
TCP provides a reliable, stream-oriented, full-duplex connection between two sockets on top of ip(7), for both v4 and v6 versions. 
TCP guarantees that the data arrives in order and retransmits lost packets. 
TCP generates and checks a per-packet checksum to catch transmission errors. 
TCP does not preserve record boundaries. 
TCP is built on top of IP,and the address formats defined by ip(7) apply to TCP.
TCP only supports point-to-point communication; broadcasting and multicasting are not supported.



TCP supports urgent data. 
Urgent data is used to signal the receiver that some important message is part of the data stream and that it should be processed as soon as possible. 
To send urgent data specify the MSG_OOB option to send(2). 


RFC 2001 the NewReno and SACK extensions.

RFC 1323 TCP high performance extensions. 
These include Protection Against Wrapped Sequence Numbers (PAWS), Window Scaling and Timestamps. 
Window scaling allows the use of large (> 64K) TCP windows in order to support links with high latency or bandwidth.
To make use of them, the send and receive buffer sizes must be increased. 



TCP Maximum Segment Size tuning
IBM, Last Updated: 2025-01-16

The maximum size packets that TCP sends can have a major impact on bandwidth, because it is more efficient to send the largest possible packet size on the network.

TCP controls this maximum size, known as Maximum Segment Size (MSS), for each TCP connection. 
For direct-attached networks, TCP computes the MSS by using the MTU size of the network interface and then subtracting 
the protocol headers to come up with the size of data in the TCP packet. 
For example, Ethernet with a MTU of 1500 would result in a MSS of 1460 after subtracting 20 bytes for IPv4 header and
20 bytes for TCP header.

The TCP protocol includes a mechanism for both ends of a connection to advertise the MSS to be used over the connection 
when the connection is created. Each end uses the OPTIONS field in the TCP header to advertise a proposed MSS. The MSS 
that is chosen is the smaller of the values provided by the two ends. If one endpoint does not provide its MSS, then 
536 bytes is assumed, which is bad for performance.

The problem is that each TCP endpoint only knows the MTU of the network it is attached to.
It does not know what the MTU size of other networks that might be between the two endpoints. So, TCP only knows the 
correct MSS if both endpoints are on the same network. Therefore, TCP handles the advertising of MSS differently 
depending on the network configuration, if it wants to avoid sending packets that might require IP fragmentation to go
over smaller MTU networks.

The value of MSS advertised by the TCP software during connection setup depends on whether the other end is a local 
system on the same physical network (that is, the systems have the same network number) or whether it is on a different
(remote) network.


Hosts on the same network
If the other end of the connection is on the same IP network, the MSS advertised by TCP is based on the MTU of the local network interface.

Hosts on different networks
When the other end of the connection is on a remote network, the operating system's TCP defaults to advertising an MSS that is determined with the method below.

TCP path MTU discovery
The TCP path MTU discovery protocol option is enabled by default in AIX. This option allows the protocol stack to determine the minimum MTU size on any network that is currently in the path between two hosts, and is controlled by the tcp_pmtu_discover=1 network option.

Static routes
You can override the default MSS value of 1460 bytes by specifying a static route to a specific remote network.
Using the tcp_mssdflt option of the no command
The tcp_mssdflt option is used to set the maximum packet size for communication with remote networks.
Subnetting and the subnetsarelocal option of the no command
You can use the subnetsarelocal option of the no command to control when TCP considers a remote endpoint to be local (on the same network) or remote.